.TH WildMidi_Init 3 "05 June 2010" "" "WildMidi Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
WildMidi_Init \- Initialize the library
.PP
.SH LIBRARY
.B libWildMidi
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <wildmidi_lib.h>
.PP
.B WildMidi_Init (const char *\fIconfig_file\fP, unsigned short int \fIrate\fP, unsigned short int \fIoptions\fP)
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Intializes libWildMidi in preparation for playback. This function only needs to be called once by the program using libWildMidi.
.PP
.IP \fIconfig-file\fP
The file that contans the instrument configuation for the library.
.PP
.IP \fIrate\fP
The sound rate you want the the audio data output at. Rates accepted by libWildMidi are 11000 \- 65000.
.PP
.IP \fIoptions\fP
The initial options to set for the library. see below
.RS
.PP
.IP WM_MO_LOG_VOLUME
By default the library uses linear volume levels typically used in computer MIDI players. These can differ somewhat to volume levels found on some midi hardware which may use a volume curve based on decibels. This option sets the volume levels to what you'd expect on such devices.
.PP
.IP WM_MO_ENHANCED_RESAMPLING
By default libWildMidi uses linear interpolation for the resampling of the sound samples. Setting this option enables the library to use a resampling method that attempts to fill in the gaps giving richer sound.
.PP
.IP WM_MO_REVERB
libWildMidi has an 8 reflection reverb engine. Use this option to give more depth to the output.
.PP
.IP WM_MO_WHOLETEMPO
Ignores the fractional or decimal part of a tempo setting. If you are having timing issues try \fIWM_MO_ROUNDTEMPO\fP before trying this option. This option added due to some software not supporting fractional tempos allowable in the MIDI specification.
.PP
.IP WM_MO_ROUNDTEMPO
Rounds the fractional or decimal part of a tempo setting. Try this option is you are having timing issues, if this fails then try \fIWM_MO_WHOLETEMPO\fP. This option added due to some software not supporting fractional tempos allowable in the MIDI specification.
.RE
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR WildMidi_GetString (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_MasterVolume (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_Open (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_OpenBuffer (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_SetOption (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_GetOutput (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_GetInfo (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_FastSeek (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_Close (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_Shutdown (3) ,
.BR wildmidi (1) ,
.BR wildmidi.cfg (5)
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Ison <wildcode@users.sourceforge.net>
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) Chris Ison 2001-2010
.PP
This file is part of WildMIDI.
.PP
WildMIDI is free software: you can redistribute and/or modify the player under the terms of the GNU General Public License and you can redistribute and/or modify the library under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the licenses, or(at your option) any later version.
.PP
WildMIDI is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License and the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License and the GNU Lesser General Public License along with WildMIDI. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.PP
.PP
This manpage is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported License. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ or send a letter to Creative Commons, 171 Second Street, Suite 300, San Francisco, California, 94105, USA.
.PP

