.TH wildmidi 1 "05 June 2010" "" "WildMidi Player"
.SH NAME
wildmidi \- example player for libWildMidi
.PP
.SH LIBRARY
.B libWildMidi
.PP
.SH FILES
.B /etc/wildmidi.cfg
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wildmidi [-behlv] [-c \fIconfig-file\fB] [-d \fIdevice\fB] [-m \fIvolume-level\fB] [-o \fIwav-file\fB] \fImidifile ...
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a demonstration program to show the capabilities of libWildMidi.
.PP
\fImidifile\fP is processed by libWildMidi and the resulting audio is output by the player.
.PP
You can have more than one \fImidifile\fB on the command line and \fBwildmidi\fP will pass them to libWildMidi for processing, one after the other. You can also use wildcards, for example: \fBwildmidi *.mid\fP
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-b\fP | \fB\-\-reverb\fP"
Turns on an 8 point reverb engine that adds depth to the final mix.
.P
.IP "\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig-file\fP | \fB\-\-config_file\fP \fIconfig\-file\fP"
Uses the configuration file stated by \fIconfig\-file\fP instead of /etc/wildmidi.cfg
.PP
.IP "\fB\-d\fP \fIdevice\fP | \fB\-\-auddev=\fIdevice\fP"
Send the audio to \fIdevice\fP instead of the default. ALSA defaults to the system "default" while OSS defaults to "/dev/dsp". Win32 environments ignore this option.
.PP
.IP "\fB\-e\fP | \fB\-\-enhanced_resample\fP"
Switches to a gauss based resampling algorithm which can improve the shape of the sound.
.PP
.IP "\fB\-h\fP | \fB\-\-help\fP"
Displays command line options
.PP
.IP "\fB\-l\fP | \fB\-\-log_vol\fP"
Some MIDI files have been recorded on hardware that uses a volume curve, making them sound really badly mixed on other MIDI devices. Use this option to use volume curves.
.PP
.IP "\fB\-m\fP \fIvolume\-level\fP | \fB\-\-master_volume=\fIvolume\-level\fP"
Set the overall volume level to \fIvolume\-level\fP. The minimum is 0 and the maximum is 127, with the default being 100.
.PP
.IP "\fB\-o\fP \fIwav\-file\fP | \fB\-\-wavout=\fIwav\-file\fP"
Records the audio in wav format to \fIwav-file\fP.
.PP
.IP "\fB\-r\fP \fIsndrate\fP | \fB\-\-rate=\fIsndrate\fP"
Set the audio output rate to \fIsndrate\fP. The default rate is 32072.
.PP
.IP "\fB\-v\fP | \fB\-\-version\fP"
Display version and copyright information
.PP
.SH TEST OPTIONS
These options are not designed for general use. Instead these options are designed to make it easier to listen to specific sound samples.
.PP
Note: These options are not displayed by \fB\-h\fP | \fB\-\-help\fP
.PP
.IP "\fB-k\fP \fIN\fP | \fB\-\-test_bank=\fIN\fP"
Set the test bank to \fIN\fP. Range is 0 to 127.
.PP
.IP "\fB\-p\fP \fIN\fP | \fB\-\-test_patch=\fIN\fP"
Set the test patch to \fIN\fP. Range is 0 to 127.
.PP
.IP "\fB\-t\fP | \fB\-\-test_midi\fP"
Plays the built in test midi which plays all 127 notes.
.PP
.SH USER INTERFACE
The player accepts limited user input that allows some interaction while playing midi files.
.PP
.IP \fB\+\fP
Turns the master volume up.
.PP
.IP \fB\-\fP
Turns the master volume down.
.PP
.IP \fBe\fP
Turns enhanced resampling on and off.
.PP
.IP \fBl\fP
Turns volume curves on and off.
.PP
.IP \fBr\fP
Turns the final mix reverb on and off.
.PP
.IP \fBn\fP
Play the next midi on the command line.
.PP
.IP \fBp\fP
Pause the playback. Note: since the audio is buffered it will stop when the audio buffer is empty.
.PP
.IP \fB.\fP
Seek forward 1 second. Note: Clears active midi events and will only play midi events from after the new position.
.PP
.IP \fB,\fP
Seek backwards 1 second. Note: Clears active midi events and will only play midi events from after the new position.
.PP
.IP \fBq\fP
Quit wildmidi.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR WildMidi_GetString (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_Init (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_MasterVolume (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_Open (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_OpenBuffer (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_SetOption (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_GetOutput (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_GetInfo (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_FastSeek (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_Close (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_Shutdown (3) ,
.BR wildmidi.cfg (5)
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Ison <wildcode@users.sourceforge.net>
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) Chris Ison 2001-2010
.PP
This file is part of WildMIDI.
.PP
WildMIDI is free software: you can redistribute and/or modify the player under the terms of the GNU General Public License and you can redistribute and/or modify the library under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the licenses, or(at your option) any later version.
.PP
WildMIDI is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License and the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License and the GNU Lesser General Public License along with WildMIDI. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.PP
.PP
This manpage is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported License. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ or send a letter to Creative Commons, 171 Second Street, Suite 300, San Francisco, California, 94105, USA.
.PP
