.TH WildMidi_Live 3 "10 March 2011" "" "WildMidi Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
WildMidi_Live \- Push a midi event into the head of the processing buffer.
.SH LIBRARY
.B libWildMidi
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <wildmidi_lib.h>
.PP
.B int WildMidi_Live (midi * \fIhandle\fP, unsigned long int \fImidi_event\fP)
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B UNDERDEVEL AND MAY CHANGE BEFORE RELEASE
.PP
Places \fImidi_event\fP at the head of the processing buffer so it is the next event processed.
.PP
.IP \fIhandle\fP
The indentifier obtained from opening a midi file with \fBWildMidi_Open\fR(3)\fP or \fBWildMidi_OpenBuffer\fR(3)\fP
.PP
.IP \fImidi_event\fP
The midi data that WildMIDI is to process. bits 31-24 contain the event and channel info with bits 23-0 containing the data shifted left.
.PP
.nf
Example: Note on event
    event_byte = 0x91;
    note_byte = 0x7f;
    velocity_byte = 0x65;
    midi_event = (event_byte << 24) | (note_byte << 16) | (velocity_byte << 8);
.fi
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns -1 on error otherwise returns 0
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR WildMidi_GetString (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_Init (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_MasterVolume (3),
.BR WildMidi_Open (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_OpenBuffer (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_SetOption (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_GetOutput (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_GetInfo (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_FastSeek (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_Close (3) ,
.BR WildMidi_Shutdown (3),
.BR wildmidi (1),
.BR wildmidi.cfg (5)
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Ison <wildcode@users.sourceforge.net>
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) Chris Ison 2001-2011
.PP
This file is part of WildMIDI.
.PP
WildMIDI is free software: you can redistribute and/or modify the player under the terms of the GNU General Public License and you can redistribute and/or modify the library under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the licenses, or(at your option) any later version.
.PP
WildMIDI is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License and the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License and the GNU Lesser General Public License along with WildMIDI. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.PP
.PP
This manpage is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported License. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ or send a letter to Creative Commons, 171 Second Street, Suite 300, San Francisco, California, 94105, USA.
.PP
